---
title: "Spring '21 Week 15"
pre: "15. "
weight: 150
date: 2021-05-04T00:53:26-05:00
---

{{< youtube TTaAy0R-PRc >}}

#### Resources

* <a href="slides" target="_blank">Slides</a>

#### Edited Transcript

Hello, and welcome to the week 15 announcements video for CC 410 in spring 2021. We are on week 15, which means it's dead week, there's just this week and next week left in the semester. So there's really not a whole lot left to this class. If you've been keeping up and you just turned in the last milestone and the last big chapter in the textbook, you're pretty much almost done. So the only things that are left this semester, by the end of the finals week, there will be a extras section in the textbook, you will just have a textbook quiz ended, it won't have anything else attached to it. I'm going to try and get that posted sometime this week. And then you'll have through the end of finals week to go through those pages. Take that quiz. And then you'll be done with that. You also have your final project milestone five, which is your final project presentation, you should schedule that sometime either this week or next week so that it is done by the end of finals week. And I'll talk a little bit more about that later. And then also, you should be getting an email from the teaching evaluation system. In the next week or so I would really like you to take the time to fill out the TEVAL for this class. It's very important to me because it helps me understand your views of the class what you learned how you experienced the class. And it gives me a lot of information that I can take and use to improve the class. And it also helps me improve my teaching style. So any comments that you have on the TEVAL are always welcome. Please feel free to be honest and open about anything you thought about this class things you liked things you didn't like, because that will help make it better for future students to take this class from the next semester and beyond. 

So really, the only thing you should be working on at this point is your final project. So don't forget to the final project deliverables, you need to create a release tag on GitHub. And that is what you'll submit on canvas as your final project. Make sure you read the requirements page for the final project to know that your final project meets all those requirements. It does use a form of requirements grading or specifications grading. So I'm really just looking for a final project that meets those requirements and does so in a fun, unique, useful, interesting way. Your code should have documentation in it. So you can generate the documentation using either javadoc or pdoc, you should also probably consider including either a README or some user documentation to help both me and any future users understand what your project is how it works, things like that. And then of course, you will give a presentation. And so for your presentation materials, any slides or anything, please make sure those are inside of your code repository on GitHub, you can just make a folder for that. But then you'll need to schedule a time with me to give the presentation either live or you can record a presentation video, and submit that to me. But I'll still want to meet with you live for the milestone, so I can do some q&a with you. Even if you submit the video. For your presentation time or your q&a time, go ahead and schedule with me using the Calendly link just like we do for all the other milestones. And it should be easy to do. 

So like I said, your presentation should be around 30 minutes in length, you can either pre record your presentation, or you can present it to me live via zoom. If you would like I'll ask you, when you get done, I will share it with the class if you're okay with me posting it. And then it's up to you. But we'd like to do some sort of a live session as part of your milestone just like for all the others. So go ahead, even if you're going to pre record your presentation, go ahead and schedule a meeting with me via Calendly, if you pre record your video or watch it beforehand. And then we'll use that as a q&a time instead of a time for you to present live. And it's a good chance for me to wrap up with you see how things went ask if you have any last minute questions, things like that. 

The presentation again, this is the suggested outline for the presentation. I've gone through this a couple of times. And I've also updated the information on the final project page with this. This is of course just a suggestion. A lot of students like to know what I'm looking for in a presentation. And this gives you an idea of what I'm looking for. You don't have to follow this outline. You can rearrange it however you want. But this is my suggestion of the types of content that you should have in your final project presentation. 

So that's really it. We're close to the end of the semester, you can see the checkered flag and the distance. So I hope everything is going well with you I will work on getting a lot of grading caught up today. So if you submitted stuff on time yesterday, I should be getting that graded today and you'll get that back and you'll have a pretty good idea of where you're at in the class. If you have any questions, concerns, anything comes up please let me know via the cc410-help email address. Also please bear in mind that unless you have talked with me and have made some other plans with me, everything in this class is due Friday of finals week, which is May 14 at 11:59pm. I cannot accept any late work after that I cannot accept any projects after that. That is the absolute last deadline that I have in this class. So unless you've made other arrangements with me, make sure you have everything turned in by that deadline so that it gets it in time for me to get it graded and get it posted as part of grades early that next week. So I wish you the best of luck as the semester wraps up, you'll see one more of these announcements videos next week. That'll be pretty short and sweet. But I wish you the best of luck and if you have any questions please let me know. 

