---
title: "Spring '21 Week 14"
pre: "14. "
weight: 140
date: 2021-04-26T00:53:26-05:00
---

{{< youtube 0ii3PXXRQwQ   >}}

#### Resources

* <a href="{{% relref "./slides" %}}" target="_blank">Slides</a>

#### Edited Transcript

Hello, and welcome to the week 14 announcements video for CC 410 in spring 2021. Well, we're on week 14, we're almost at the end of the semester. And so this week is really the last week of new content that we will be working with. So this week, we're going to cover serialization in the textbook, which is the process of saving your program state to a file and then restoring that state from the file later on. We're also going to cover form validation, which we talked about in a previous chapter, but we're going to see an example of how that actually works. And then for the restaurant projects, you're going to implement both form validation and serialization with your custom items, so that you can create those custom items, save them and restore them when your program reloads. And also, this week, you'll be working on your final project. And so this week, we'll have milestone four, where I'd like to schedule a meeting time to meet with me and discuss your final project and see where you're going from there. 

So this week, like I said, for the restaurant milestone, there's two things you're going to work on. The first one is form validation so that as you submit your custom menu items, it validates to make sure that they fit within the range. So it helps ensure that your form data is correct, and it will display some help layers to the user If it isn't, and then really all, you'll also work on serialization. So the ability to store your custom items to a file, and then when your program reloads, it will load those custom items from the file and display those to the user. You'll also be able to choose whichever text or binary format you want to use. So you can explore different types of serialization formats. It's entirely up to you which one you want to use, but the textbook includes examples for all of them. 

For the rest of the semester, after this coming week, there are two weeks which is dead week and finals week. So the only things that you'll be working on in this class after May 3, when this milestone is due, is there will be an extra section in the textbook, I'll try and get that posted sometime in the next week or so. All that is going to be is some pages of things that we didn't cover this class. But I feel like you're important to at least mention, there may be a couple of short quizzes to go along with those, but it's not going to be too difficult. I had in the plan and a plan to do an example project for the extras I'm not sure if that will come together or not. So if I'm going to do it, I'll post it soon. If not, I will let you know that you don't have to worry about it. But my goal is by middle of that week, any of the extra stuff will be posted and you can take a look at that. But really the big thing you should be working on after May 3 is your final project. And your final project presentation needs to be scheduled and performed either via video or via zoom with me no later than the end of finals week, which I believe is may 14 this year. So make sure you're keeping that in mind. 

We went through this last week, but I'll quickly go through this again for your final project. The major deliverables are creating a release tag on GitHub with all of your source code, your source code should have code documentation inside of it explaining how it works, I highly recommend creating either a readme file or a user documentation or something that explains how your project works and how to use it. And then also in your Git repository, make sure you add your presentation materials, so any slides or notes or anything you use for your presentation. Also make sure you submit those along with your code. And then you'll actually give a presentation to me, you can either record it and send me the video file or you can do it live via zoom, it's up to you which you prefer, your presentation should be around 30 minutes in length, you can either pre record it, like I said presented live. If you pre recorded I do probably I probably will email you some questions and have you respond to those just to get that q&a part. If you do a live we'll do the q&a part directly during the zoom. And then I will be sending out a quick survey to see if you're interested in sharing your presentation with the class. And we'll figure out how to do that. For several of you that are available, we might try and do a live session. So keep an eye on your email. And I will send out more details about that within the next couple of weeks. 

For your presentation, the outline is the suggested outline is here. It's entirely up to you whether you want to follow this or adapt it. But I have a lot of students see asked me what I expect in the presentation. And this kind of goes over it. I added this also to the final project page that gives a little bit more description on these sections. The big thing is you'll have an introduction, introducing your project you'll talk about background, which is where your project came from any inspirations anything related to your project there. The bulk of your presentation will be the implementation part which describes how you wrote the project, the code, the architecture, the structure, things like that. Your evaluation is basically how well you feel like the project you created met the goal that you set for yourself and how well it compares to any similar projects. If there are any. You'll briefly discuss future work. If you could keep working on this project. What would you do next? Then you give a quick conclusion and then at the end, you can give a demo where you share your screen, bring up your project and actually show us how it works and what it does. 

So we're getting toward the end of the semester. I always like to use this GIF about this time of the year. The end is near home Hopefully it doesn't feel too onerous onerous on you. But if you have any questions as always, you can let me know via the cc410-help email address or you can get in touch with me via Discord. I'm always happy to help. But hopefully this is your last big week of work in this project before you work on your final project. And as always, good luck and let me know if you have questions. 

