---
title: "Spring '21 Week 9"
pre: "9. "
weight: 90
date: 2021-03-22T00:53:26-05:00
---

{{< youtube HjYRII52QyQ >}}

#### Resources

* <a href="slides" target="_blank">Slides</a>

#### Edited Transcript

Hello, and welcome to the week nine announcements video for CC 410 in spring 2021. So this week, I'm a little bit behind getting stuff post to the Canvas, but it will be posted shortly. I'm waiting on the last couple of videos to get rendered from our videographers. But this week, we'll be starting on working with external libraries. And so we'll learn about those external libraries we've been installing in our programs, how to use them. And then we'll actually do an example working with an external library that I created. And so you'll actually use that you'll explore that a little bit and then we'll take that into our project. This week is like week four, and five we did earlier where we will have weeks nine and 10, kind of combined together. And so this week is going to be pretty short. But hopefully, you'll be able to start in on the content in week 10, because you have both a restaurant milestone and a file final project milestone due next week, we'll also give you a chance to do the start-stop-continue survey again. So if there's any feedback you have for me on things you'd like me to start doing in this class, the things you'd like to make sure I continue doing in this class or anything that I'm doing that you'd like me to stop doing, because it's not useful to you. That survey is where you can let me know. 

So next week will also be published very shortly. Hopefully it should be out later this afternoon. Next week is all about creating releases, we're going to briefly talk about how to take the software you've written so far and package it up as a release, so that you can make it available to other people. This we won't directly use in our software project. But it's a really cool thing to have. But the big thing we're working on next week would be the seventh milestone for the restaurant project. And then also the third final project milestone covering GUIs. 

So for milestone seven in the restaurant project, there are really two parts to this milestone. The first part is to finish building the combos that you created in milestone six by actually building the GUI for that. And as part of the example, you'll learn a little bit about how to build that in one of the example projects. So hopefully, you can adapt that into this project as well. So part one is mainly just getting the combos working, getting all the buttons out into the GUI, updating the sidebar panel, so it can handle combos, things like that. And then part two of milestone seven is checkout where you will use the external library I wrote to mimic a cash register. And so you'll have users click the Checkout button, they'll get to choose either cash or credit card. And then based on what they choose with credit cards, it's pretty simple with cash, you have to accept an amount of cash from them and then calculate the correct amount of change. But in either case, you have to interface with the register library properly. Make sure you read the documentation for the register library very closely. I've also made the source code available to you. So you can look at that I'm not sure if I'm going to do that in future semesters or not. But this semester, you get to look at the source code. It has a lot of exceptions that it will throw so you have to do things in the right order in the right way. So make sure you read the documentation that I provide you for that register library to make sure you understand how it works. And then at the end, you'll print a receipt. And you'll write some unit tests that verify some of your functionality works correctly here. To go along with that for the final project milestone three. Hopefully by this point, you started doing some coding on your final project, you should have kind of an idea of what your class library might look like, you might have some sketches of your UI, or maybe even a framework for your GUI. But keep in mind, we're now over halfway through the semester and things are gonna start getting really fast really quick. Once you get done with milestone seven, you're going to have basically five weeks left to really work on your final project. It's a 16 week semester, but you really have about five weeks to get to week 15. And then the 16th week is finals week, where you'll be presenting and working on other stuff, you know the classes, so it speeds up really quickly once you get past this halfway point. So keep that in mind. 

Looking ahead, I'm going to start working on module 11. This week, the next few modules are going to cover a web interface for our program, I don't think we're going to get as far as actually accepting orders via the web interface. But I will work with the menu and we'll work on some web topics. Mainly this is to give you some of the skills you might need to take a project like this and actually make a web based interface for it instead of a traditional GUI interface for it. Because that's really where a lot of the industry is going. So I think this is a really useful skill to have here in CC 410. The next few milestones for the restaurant project I'm thinking will be a little bit smaller. I'm trying to reduce the size of those milestones for this last chunk so that you'll have a little bit more time to work on your final projects each week. So we'll see how that balance comes out as I work on that module. 

Other than that, we'll be working on getting our applications onto the world wide web. So hopefully that's exciting to you. As always, if you have any questions or concerns, feel free to let me know either via discord or via the cc410-help email address and I'd be happy to help you out. Otherwise, good luck with this double week working on milestone seven, the last big gooey milestone in the restaurant project. And hopefully we'll get to the Web Project very shortly. 
