---
title: "Fall '25 Week 2"
pre: "2. "
weight: 20
---

{{< youtube ASb2msfpJtY >}}

#### Resources

* <a href="{{% relref "./slides" %}}" target="_blank">Slides</a>

#### Edited Transcript

Hello and welcome to the week to announcements video for CC410 in fall 2025. So this week you should be wrapping up the first module which includes the Hello Real World project. I really like the Hello Real World project because I think it takes the classic Hello World project that you start with and really expands upon it in a way that makes it match more what you'd see in the real world with things like type checking and unit testing and all of these other things that we're going to do in this class. So hopefully you're getting that wrapped up and getting that committed and pushed to GitHub so that we can get that graded. As always, if you have any questions with that, let me know. 

Also this week you should be scheduling your first final project check-in. Basically what I want you to do is schedule a 15-minute meeting with me via Zoom, either on Calendly or on my booking link. Mainly it's a chance for us to meet briefly on Zoom, get to know each other, and to give me a chance to explain the final project and some of the things going on in this class. I like to do an in-person meeting like that during the first couple of weeks of the semester, just because this is a small class. There's only about 10 students this semester. So it really gives me a chance to get to know each of you individually and really talk to you about the class and what's going on. So please make sure you get that scheduled so that we can meet sometime in the next week or two to start with that. 

So this week we're going to introduce the second module, which is object-oriented programming. We're going to reinforce a lot of the object-oriented programming things that you've learned earlier by making classes, functions, constructors, things like that. You'll do a small example project. We're going to come back to that example project a few times, but you'll do a small example project, and then you'll start working on the first restaurant milestone. And remember to do the restaurant milestone, you'll kind of start by doing the same things that you did at the beginning of the Hello Real World project, but then you'll start building your restaurant classes instead. Also, please remember for this semester, you can choose which restaurant project you want to go through. I discussed this briefly in some of the earlier announcements. There's the one that's linked directly in the textbook, and then there's an extra one that's available. You can choose either one of those. It'll be pretty clear in your submission which one you have chosen. 

So other than that, please don't forget that there are updates on both the announcements and the ed discussion board, specifically in the Canvas announcements. The second announcement is a read this announcement that talks about some of the updates in this course, things like new Python versions, issues with Codio GUI since we built this course, things like that. I have not had the time to go through and fix all of those in the underlying materials yet, but I do have an announcement that lists all of those. Most of the announcements for me are going to come from the Ed Discussion Board, except for these weekly announcements, which will get posted on Canvas. When you see grading, you'll see there's a rubric on Canvas. I'll also leave some code comments on GitHub. You'll get an email from GitHub with those code comments. Otherwise, I think things are going well. So hopefully things are working so far so good. But as always, if you have any questions, let me know. 

So for the first milestone, like I said, it's going to be a lot of packages and classes, a lot of boilerplate code to make object-oriented programming work. If you want, you can make things easier on you later and go ahead and worry about things like the Flake 8 style checker and adding your documentation comments as you're doing your writing. But to ease you into this class, I don't actually require and grade those until milestone three. So you don't have to do them right now, but I encourage you, if you want to make life easier for you later, go ahead and get used to adding those now as you work. My estimate for milestone one is it may take anywhere from three to eight hours to complete. I completed it when I was doing the model solution in about an hour. So usually I figure with my experience, I go quite a bit faster than you would. And that's totally fine. You know, I have 20 years of programming experience, but it still takes me about an hour to go through the first milestone. And then your expected size is around 1,500 to 2,500 lines of code. It varies widely depending on how you write this up. And of course, if anything's unclear in the milestone, anything you want to know more about, you can post on the megathread in a discussion or you can send me an email and I'd be happy to answer those questions. 

So looking ahead after this, Module 3, we'll talk about some documentation and unit testing. Module 4, we'll introduce some inheritance and polymorphism into this project. We'll refactor some of our additional code. And then Module 5, we'll introduce things like debugging statements, logging statements, Lambda expressions. And then by the end of September, when Module 5 is due, we'll have our second final project check-in. At that time, we'll start talking more specifically about final project ideas for your project. So that's where we're going this semester. I hope things are going well for you. As always, if you have any questions, let me know. Otherwise, best of luck. And I will see you again next week. 
