---
title: "Fall '22 Week 6"
pre: "6. "
weight: 60
---

{{< youtube 9SFT6BvMhBg   >}}

#### Resources

* <a href="{{% relref "./slides" %}}" target="_blank">Slides</a>

#### Edited Transcript

Hello, and welcome to the week six Announcements video for CC 410 in fall 2022. This week, you should be wrapping up the last part of the first section of the course, which deals with debugging and logging. You'll also learn about Lambda expressions. And you'll be working on the third restaurant milestone where you're adding a whole lot of inheritance and polymorphism into your project. This week, and next week, you should also be scheduling our second final project meeting. This is where we'll start talking about how your final projects will match the framework that we've built in the restaurant project. And we'll start bouncing around some ideas for your final project, you don't really have to lock in anything yet. But this is a good chance to kind of discuss where you're at in the course and see what your final project might be going forward. 

So this week, we're going to switch gears a little bit and we're going to start working on graphical user interfaces or GUIs. So this week, we'll have a quick GUI basics example where we'll kind of build out some of the framework around our GUI. We'll add a lot of the interactions to it next week. But this will lead toward the fourth restaurant projects, and then also do not this week, but next week is the first concept quiz in the course that I'll talk about here momentarily. That's a big thing to keep in mind. It is part of this week's module, but it's actually not due until the end of next week. But I encourage you to set aside some time here in the next two weeks to get that done. So for milestone four, you're going to create a basic graphical user interface for your project, we're going to talk about an overall structure. And then I'm going to give you one example in the example project of how this might look. But you can really take your your user interface in a different direction as long as it has the same functionality for what we're looking at. I highly encourage you to read the helpful hints especially in the project description, I give some hints and some sample code that you may want to use. But this is a chance for you to get creative. If you want to add additional designs or graphics or colors or whatever to your user interface, you're more than welcome to do that. It just needs to meet the basic requirements of having the buttons and the sidebars just like we describe it. But everything else is fair game. So feel free to get creative as much as you'd prefer working on this project.

So next week is our first concept quiz in the course, these are kind of like checkpoint exams, but I really treat them more like a large quiz. They are a significant chunk of your grade, I think they're about 5% of your grade, the syllabus would have the full percentage on there. Each concept quiz is presented as a quiz in Canvas, it has a two hour time limit. So once you start it, you have to do the whole thing in one sitting. So make sure you block out a couple hours of time to work on this. Mainly this concept quiz is all about object oriented programming theory. There are some questions about code comprehension and UML comprehension where I have you read some code, read a diagram and talk about how it would look. There are some instances where you have to write small bits of code. So make sure you have either Cody available or another IDE available. The code itself, it's you'll get full points if it actually compiles and works, you'll get most of the points if the idea is there. But you may have a couple of syntax or usage errors, I'm usually pretty flexible in that as long as I can see that you've got the right idea in the code. We'll do some testing on unit testing as well. So be prepared to write some unit tests. The big thing about this quiz, it is totally open book, open notes, open code, you can refer to any of the resources you have in this class, including your project code, the milestone code, the example code, so feel free to have some of that available to you as you work on this quiz. If you have any questions or concerns about the quiz, or you have any concerns specifically about the timing on the quiz, let me know and I'd be happy to work with you to make sure that this works. So that everybody has an equal chance to work on this quiz and do well.

Looking ahead from here after we build our graphical interface this week, next week, we're going to work on event driven programming where we actually add some of the interactivity to that. Then we're going to go into module eight, which is all about design patterns and unit test mocks, I think that's probably the single most important thing that we're going to learn in this class is all of the software engineering design patterns that we can use, and also how to use mock objects in our tests. So module eight is really important. Module nine, we'll add some more features, building combos for our project, which is really important. And then after that, we'll talk about some web API's. And we'll go into the last third of the class. 

So hopefully, things are coming along really well this week. If you have any questions or concerns, let me know. We're basically 1/3 of the way through the class. We're going to shift gears a little bit and start working on user interfaces. As always, if you have any questions, let me know and otherwise I will see you again next week.



