---
title: "Fall '23 Week 2"
pre: "2. "
weight: 20
---

{{< youtube N6URHd2gc9M   >}}

#### Resources

* <a href="{{% relref "./slides" %}}" target="_blank">Slides</a>

#### Edited Transcript

Hello and welcome to the week two announcements video for CC 410 in Fall 2023. You'll see me in these videos about once a week. They're a little bit more informal. You'll notice I don't put up my background or anything, but it's a chance for me to talk through some things that I would normally say if we were in class at the beginning of class. So this week you should be wrapping up the first module, which is Hello Real World Project and getting that submitted. You should also have by now scheduled a final project meeting with me, just that we can discuss the final project in this class. If you haven't done that already, please find my calendar link and schedule a time to chat with me sometime this week. This is just a chance for us to meet each other and talk a little bit about the class and the upcoming final project. This week you're going to get started on the first restaurant milestone, which covers object oriented programming. We're going to reintroduce a lot of those concepts that you've probably seen before in previous courses. We're going to go a little bit bigger. We're going to make a lot of different classes and some different packages, and we're going to make that all work together to represent the menu at a restaurant. So hopefully this is a really useful milestone. 

Some updates in this class. Don't forget, if you have questions, you can always use the Ed discussion board. I can respond there pretty quickly. You can also email me at the CC 410 help email address. So in this course, as I've talked with a lot of you in person, I've mentioned that grading is done in person or it's done manually. It's not done in person, but it's done directly by me. The rubric itself, you'll find those on Canvas, but I usually go in and leave code comments in GitHub as part of the GitHub pull requests. Every time I leave those code comments, I believe you'll get an email from GitHub telling you to go find those. But usually in the Canvas link, I will put the first link in there, so hopefully you can find my comments and feedback. If not, if you have any questions, let me know. Other than that, I think things are going well so far this semester. Everything seems to have started off without any major issues, so hopefully we keep going well. So for the first milestone, it's a lot of packages and classes like I talked about. It's a lot of bDoilerplate code. There are several entree classes, there are several side classes and drink classes. They're very similar in structure, but they have slightly different variables and slightly different values. So one thing you can do is usually write one of them really well and then copy paste a lot of that code into the others. 

So other things that you can think about is if you want to make things easier later, you can already start thinking about coding style and adding your documentation comments. Those are not required until the next couple of milestones, but if you add them now, it makes things easier down the road. I estimate this milestone would take anywhere from three to 8 hours to complete. It really depends on your background and the way that you work and the way you code for reference. When I did the model solutions for these milestones, I did each one in about an hour. But I have a lot of experience and I know exactly where I'm going with this. So I estimate for most students, three to 8 hours should be about right. The end product is about 1500 to 2500 lines of code, depending on how much style and documentation work you do. And then of course, with all these milestones, feedback is welcome. If there's something that's not clear or well explained in the milestone, please let me know. I reserve the right to tell you that that's how it's meant to be, that sometimes I leave things a little vague on purpose, but I can also go in and make changes very easily if anything's unclear, so let me know. 

Looking Ahead after this module, the next module will cover some things about documentation and testing. Then we'll spend some time on inheritance and polymorphism, a really interesting topic. The module after that is on debugging logging and lambda expressions. And that gets us to the end of September where we'll have our second final project meeting. And then from there I have reworked some of the modules from last semester. So we'll talk about design patterns and test doubles in modules six and seven. So that's really all I've got for today. I hope everything's going well as always. If you have any questions, you can find me on the Ed discussion board or via email at CC 410 help. Don't be afraid to schedule meetings with me on calendar if you want to meet one on one. Otherwise, best of luck this week and I will see you again next week. 
