---
title: "S26 Week 1"
pre: "1. "
weight: 10
hidden: true
---

{{< youtube naK8DDNg_qU  >}}

#### Resources

* <a href="{{% relref "./slides" %}}" target="_blank">Slides</a>

#### Edited Transcript

Greetings and welcome to the Cyber Pipeline Program. It is spring 2026 and we're on the first week of the semester. So I'm going to record a short video to send out to everybody just to welcome you to the program and to introduce some things that you might want to know. So my name is Russ Feldhausen. I'm one of the instructors for this program. I'm probably going to be the one that you're going to interact with the most throughout these first couple of courses, but there are a lot of faculty that are involved in this program that you may see and hear from from time to time. I work really closely with my colleagues, Dr. Nathan Bean and Dr. Josh Weese, to kind of work as the directors of this program. We have put together a lot of the content and do a lot of the management of the program and the grant itself. We also work really closely with Dr. Safia Malallah, Dr. Friday James, as a couple other faculty in the computer science department building out curriculum for this program. And of course, most of you have probably already met and interacted with Dr. David Allen from the education department, who is our colleague over there that works with the pedagogy side of this program. So you might see or hear from a lot of us throughout this program, but especially in the CC7X courses, you'll probably see and hear a lot from me more than anybody else, just because I'm the one actively managing the courses in Canvas. And so I do a lot of the frontline work. 

We also have a lot of teaching assistants and graduate teaching assistants that you may come across throughout the semester. This is the current list that I have. It's probably going to change tomorrow as people come and go. But you may see or hear from a lot of these students, especially if you attend office hours. Some of them may also help out with some grading as well. So you may get comments from them on your work. So just be aware that there are a lot of our students working with us as well. And they're a key instrument to being able to do this program. 

So first off, I want to welcome our new teachers to this program. We've got a large cohort of almost 50 teachers joining us in CC 710 and 711, which is the largest cohort we've ever had at one time. I believe about half of the teachers have already gotten started on the courses, but for those of you that haven't, welcome. We're glad you're here. We're excited to have you get started. I want to introduce some things about the courses, just so you're aware. In all of our courses, there are no late penalties. If you look in Canvas, you will see that there are due dates and deadlines put on everything. Those deadlines are just meant to be a guideline for what it would take to complete this course in a normal 16-week semester. So if you were taking this course as a K-State student working on campus, that would be the pace we'd expect you to go at. We realize that teachers, especially teachers that are working, have a very busy schedule. Believe me, I know I teach a full load at K-State and I'm currently trying to finish my PhD and it's difficult to do and it's taken me eight years. So I get it. So we want you to feel comfortable that we'd like you to move along at the pace that the deadlines are, but we really want you to find the pace that works for you and stick to that. So don't worry about the deadlines. Don't worry about the late penalties. There is no such thing. We just have those there to help keep you on track if you want to keep up with a normal 16-week course. 

The other thing we say is we offer easy incomplete grades in this course. If you do not complete this course by the end of the spring semester, which would be the week of May 11th, if you aren't done with the course by then, we'll reach out to you. And as long as you still want to keep working on the course, we can offer you an incomplete grade so you can keep working on this course through the summer as long as you need. Generally, as long as you're making consistent forward progress in the course, we are willing to extend that incomplete grade out as long as you need. However, if you do find that you stop working on the course and you just aren't going to get there, because this is a K-State course, we can't just make it go away. It will show up as an F on your transcript. And that's because we've spent a lot of grant money on this. So just be aware that we really want you to persevere and get through this program, but we will give you as much time and as much help as you need to get there. We just want to see you make consistent progress working forward in this course. 

Last big thing I want to make clear, for a lot of you, you're enrolled in both CC710 and CC711. The intent is to do those courses concurrently. What we really don't want is for you to do all of 710 and then do 711. You really should try and work on them side by side. And so the deadlines in those courses line up at about the pace that we want you to go. So you do probably a couple modules in 710, and then you do the first lab in 711, then you do a couple modules in 710, then you do the second lab in 711 and kind of keep up with that alternating pace. That is the intended way to go through these courses. It's kind of like a lecture and lab. For those of you that took chemistry or biology in college, you probably had a lecture course that was paired with a lab course. That's kind of how we view 710 and 711, where 710 is the lecture with all the content and 711 is the lab that is related to that content, but it goes at a different pace. So just be aware of that. 

So one thing about grading. In this course, there's a lot of grading that happens. Usually I try and get grades done within one week of things being submitted. Generally, I am much faster than that, but we try and guarantee within a week. Throughout this course, you're going to find things that are graded in different ways. And so I wanted to briefly discuss that here. In CC710, all of the quizzes in Canvas, for the most part, are auto-graded, except for the Boolean Logic one. So as soon as you complete the quiz, it will tell you what your grade is. If you get timed out on a quiz or something, email us and let us know. We will generally give you a second attempt on a quiz without any problem. That happens from time to time. You're starting a quiz, you get interrupted, life happens. Just email us. We'll work with you. 710 also has a lot of writing in the discussion posts and the reflective journals. Those get graded manually. I will try and get to those as soon as I can. I try and leave some comments if I have anything I can add to the discussion. So just watch for that. 

The CC 711 labs, these are the ones that are most confusing. They are partially auto-graded and partially manual graded. So when you complete a 711 lab and you hit submit, you'll probably see a grade come into Canvas that's like 25%. And what that means is some of the lab is auto-graded and we graded it at 25% of the content. And then we will go in and manually grade the rest of it. And so usually within a week, you'll see that grade update to something like 90 or 95% that is your actual grade. So when you submit a 710 lab, don't freak out if you get a low grade at first. That's just the auto grade doing its part. But what that does is that unlocks the next lab so you can start working ahead while we do the manual grading part and get back with more feedback. So just be aware of that, that the labs are kind of half and half. The quizzes in 711, if there is, or sorry, the 711 homeworks, I should say homeworks, those are fully manual graded. It usually will take us about a week to get back to those. But when you submit those, they shouldn't lock anything to prevent you from moving on. And then for those of you in 730 and 750, almost all of that is auto-graded except for the last little bits of 750. So if you turn something in and you haven't gotten a grade within a week or so, ping us and let us know if we miss something. It's kind of a trick between myself and all the TAs to figure out who's covering what and making sure everything gets covered. We miss things from time to time, especially in this course. Feel free to reach out to us if we miss something. If you turn something in and we haven't graded it, let us know and we will happily make sure that that gets taken care of. 

So in this program on the homepage on Canvas, there's a big section that talks about getting help. That's the same in every course. It's right there up front so you can find it. In general, the thing that I highly recommend doing is posting in the Ed Discussion board. You can post either anonymously, you can post privately just to the instructors, or you can post something publicly that you feel like would be helpful to other teachers. That's the easiest way for us to answer questions. We can talk, we can put screenshots there, other people can see your answers, and the TAs, GTAs, and other instructors can all post in there as well. So Ed Discussion is by far our best way to get you help. So post there anytime you have questions. 

We're also going to start hosting scheduled office hours. So on that page down at the bottom, there's an office hours calendar. It may still have some office hours from the previous semester that are on there. So I'm going to work with students to get their schedule updated as soon as we can. I'll probably post another announcement once I know the office hour schedule is current so that you can start looking for that. So you can always attend our scheduled office hours. We'll have TAs hanging out in Zoom during those times. They're available to help. You can also request office hours by appointment by just emailing us and saying, hey, I'm only available Thursday nights from 7 to 9 o'clock. Can somebody put together an office hour to meet with me during that time? Let us know. We can work within your schedule, especially a lot of the TAs are really willing to do those appointment office hours in the evenings and weekends so that they can pick up more hours. So feel free to ask for those anytime. 

And then, of course, if you need to email us for any reason, there are help email addresses for this course, CC710-HELP, CC730-HELP. Those emails go directly to all the instructors and a few of our senior TAs. Those are great if you have grading questions or if you just prefer to talk to us via email. Please use those help emails instead of emailing me directly or any of the other faculty directly, just because it will go to everybody and the first person that's available can answer it. That way, if I'm busy or somebody else is busy or we're on vacation, your email will still get answered in a timely manner. So that's why we have those help emails out there. 

Beyond that, some big advice for this program is to just try and make steady progress. It's the same time I tell my students is try and set aside a couple hours, three or four hours each week and try and get something done each week. The hardest thing about this program is if you get busy and you miss a week and you fall behind and then you miss another week and then you miss another week and next thing you know, you haven't done anything in a month. It's, you know, this is the time of year where people are making New Year's resolutions and it's just like going to the gym or trying to eat healthy. That first time you miss, it's really hard to get back on that bandwagon and keep going. So I always tell students to try and make good, steady progress in a course. And I think that really applies here. 

If you get stuck on something, ask for help. Learning to program is hard and there is absolutely zero intent for you to be able to do that without any intervention from us. We have done the best we can to provide all the material we think you need, but there's always going to be a time where something's not going to make sense or your brain's not going to see something the same thing, the same way that we explain it, and you're going to get stuck. And so I generally tell any of my students and anybody I work with, if you've been spinning your wheels for more than about a half hour and you haven't made forward progress, that is a really good time to take a step back, decompress, and ask for help. Generally, you're not going to get any further forward, spending four hours getting more and more frustrated and discouraged and thinking that programming is terrible instead of just taking a step back. It's like, hey, I don't understand something. Let's talk to somebody and ask for help. I know as teachers, we always say, boy, I wish our students would ask for help. And I'm going to tell you the same thing. I wish you would ask for more help. So please, please, please let us know how we can help. 

And then, of course, you're all teachers. We really welcome your questions and ideas and feedback on this curriculum. We have done the best we can to provide a curriculum that we feel works well, but it definitely has gaps. It definitely has weak points. It definitely has places in it that we could do better. And so we really welcome your questions, your ideas, your feedback from your own pedagogical perspective of what works and what doesn't. The more that we can make this course better, the better off everybody is. I can tell you that this course has been completely reformatted at least twice throughout the work of this program based on some feedback that we got from teachers earlier on in early cohorts of this program. So we continue to welcome your questions, your advice, your feedback, anything that we can do to improve this program. We're really looking for that. 

So other big things that are upcoming, probably in March or April, we'll be reaching out to you to start talking about summer and fall enrollment. Watch for emails from either Dr. Allen or Ashley Null or some of the other folks that you've already worked with about that. We also do host a workshop and conference in late May, early June for this program that we will invite everybody to. For folks currently in our cohort, it's all expenses paid. We cover your travel, we cover your hotel, we cover per diem. It's great. Usually we have that around the week after Memorial Day. I know it conflicts with state track. That's just the time of the year that it seems to work for most people. So just be aware of that. We'll send out more information as that comes along. And then once we get to the summer, we'll start sending out information about curriculum requests. So if you want to use this curriculum in your school, we have a way to do that. You just request access to the curriculum. We build it out in Canvas. We work with you to make it available to your students. Most of that will come out in the summer, but if you're interested in looking at it right now, email me and let me know and I can get you early access to it so you can start going through what this looks like as a teacher right as the same time you go through it as a student, which is really cool. 

So you've probably gotten some of this information from Dr. Allen. This program generally consists of 10 credit hours, which is four courses. Most of you are in 710 and 711 this spring, which is the first set of courses. Generally, then you take most likely the EDCI 765 course in the summer and then the CC730 course, which is our second programming course in the fall. That makes up the core 10 credit hours of our program. For those of you in CC730 now, you may also be taking EDCI 768 or 769, which are the second level pedagogy courses. Those are offered in the spring. And then you can also take 750 in the fall, which is our data structures and algorithms course. Those two courses, the 750 and the second EDCI course, are what it takes to get toward the graduate certificate in computer science education. So it makes up 16 credit hours. If you want to know more about that, email me, let me know, email Dr. Al and let him know. We can talk you through all of these different things. But that's generally the plan that we go through in this program. 

So other thing to be aware of, tuition payments are ongoing. If you're getting any emails from K-State saying that your tuition hasn't been paid, just hold tight. We're working on that. It involves about five different offices and it feels like three acts of Congress to get these tuitions paid. So bear with us as we navigate the red tape that is K-State Administration and get this all figured out. If you get late penalties in February or something like that, let us know and we will try and track that down. But generally, your tuition should be paid within the next couple weeks so that we hit that early tuition deadline. But it's administration. It will get done whenever it gets done. 

Other items, if you're interested in using this curriculum in your high school, we have options where you can do it for dual enrollment or dual credit, especially for those close to Manhattan. So we have worked with Manhattan High School as our first school to do that. We've got some opportunities for other schools in the Manhattan area and points west. Unfortunately, the eastern and southern parts of the state are covered by other universities for dual credit opportunities, so we can't easily get into there. But we can also work with you to offer AP credit through our courses. We've gotten them basically validated as AP adjacent courses, so we can work with that. And you have opportunities to participate in research. So if you're interested in doing some research with us, if you're interested in going for a graduate degree or anything like that, we work as part of the Advancing Learning and Teaching and Computer Science Lab. We're always loving to bring in more high school teachers to be part of our research opportunities. So just watch out for some of that. 

So hopefully things are going well. It's the first week of the semester for me at K-State, so it kind of feels like everything's on fire. But hopefully throughout the semester, things will settle down a little bit. You'll probably see videos like this from me every once in a while as we go through this program. But I really wanted to do a quick introductory video to everybody just to say hi, just to give you a little bit of feedback on what we're doing in this course. And as always, if you have any questions, let us know. Otherwise, best of luck in this program. We look forward to seeing more of you. And I hope to hear from you again later this semester. 
