---
title: "Fall '25 Week 14"
pre: "14. "
weight: 140
---

{{< youtube 5JaD8rX9Uz8 >}}

#### Resources

* <a href="{{% relref "./slides" %}}" target="_blank">Slides</a>

#### Edited Transcript

Good morning and welcome to your week 14 announcements video for CC410 in fall 2025. Hopefully everybody had a good Thanksgiving break and is ready to get these last couple of weeks of the semester out of the way. So this week you're going to have a final project check-in. This is our last big check-in before your final project is due. Mainly it's just a chance for me to chat with you, make sure everything's going well on your final project, and answer any questions you have about getting it wrapped up before the end of the semester. We also have the second concept quiz in this class. This is just to check that you're understanding some of our object-oriented concepts and things like that. Once again, a reminder on these concept quiz, they're open book, open notes, but please don't use AI for these. I really want to see exactly what your understanding is of these concepts. And it's a really good check to make sure you're understanding exactly what we're doing in this class. And then you're going to be working on a restaurant milestone where we're going to add a RESTful API and we're going to add a quick little form to add custom items to the menu. You're not going to edit the menu itself. You're just going to add custom items to that menu. And then of course, I want you to keep working on the final project. 

So like I said, for Milestone 12, we're going to build a RESTful web application. We're going to create some custom menu items, and it's going to reinforce some of those design patterns that we came through earlier this semester, like the iterator pattern and the singleton pattern. And this will also be the last time that you're going to update the UML diagram for your project. Again, you can just do a web-focused UML diagram. You don't have to include all of the data stuff and all the GUI stuff. I really just want to see a quick UML for the web that kind of links to other parts of your project. And then next week, we're going to have one more restaurant milestone that's on validation and serialization. It's a very small milestone that just adds a few more features to what we're doing in this custom items. And then you'll be continuing to work on your final project through that week and into the final of the semester. 

So then after that, there is a textbook extras quiz that's due on finals week. It's just a short quiz of things that I couldn't get into the textbook elsewhere. Your final project is due on Friday the 19th. So make sure you're watching for that and I will talk about that in just a second. And then the other quick reminder is I've seen that several students have submitted things very early. If you want to get those graded early before the deadline, you just have to email me and let me know. And then I will go through and grade anything that you've submitted that you want me to grade early. That way you know where you're at on the final project. So don't be afraid to email me if you've got anything already submitted that you want me to grade before the deadline. That also helps me out because I can get a little caught up on grading before we hit finals week and make sure that your grade is up to date. 

So for the final project in this class, just like a lot of the milestones, you're going to do pretty much the same thing. You're going to make a release tag on GitHub. Make sure you go back and read the requirements page for the final project. The final project is more of a completion project. It has several things. I want you to hit most of them, but it's really just kind of meet those requirements as best you can. Your code should have some inline documentation comments. It should have a README. You may also create some quick user documentation for how to use your project. That would be really helpful. And then you will give a final presentation for this class. You don't have to do a write-up other than the README, but you do have to do a presentation. So the presentation should be around 15 to 20 minutes. It's mostly just going through your code and going through your project. You have two options to give your presentation. You can either pre-record the presentation using Zoom or whatever tools you want to use and then send it to me, or you can present it live via Zoom to me anytime that I'm available for scheduling. 

However, if you either pre-record it or present it live, you need to have some time for Q & A. So if you do pre-record your presentation, you have to submit it to me sometime before you schedule time for your Q & A. So if you schedule your Q & A on Friday, you need to send me the video at least a little bit ahead of that so I can have watched your video by the time we get to the time for Q & A. If you're going to present live, obviously we'll just do Q & A right after your presentation. Also, please be aware that I'm only available for these presentations Monday, Tuesday, and Friday of Finals Week. And generally, my Friday gets filled up pretty quickly. So if you want to meet with me, grab a time on my calendar or on my meet time, anytime on Monday, Tuesday, or Friday of Finals Week to do your Q & A time. But just remember, if you're going to pre-record your video, you have to submit it so that I can watch it before we do Q & A. I don't give a real deadline on that. I will try and catch videos pretty quickly, but just make sure you have it scheduled in time. And then also bear in mind, the end of the semester is December 19th. I cannot extend this deadline past that because grades are due Monday, and there's no way I'm going to get everything graded if I extend those deadlines. So you absolutely have to have everything done Friday the 19th. Get it in, get it turned in. And remember, for any time, any Q & A's or anything like that, my workday ends at five o'clock. So even though you might be able to turn stuff in at midnight, for some of this, you need to get it done so you can schedule your things before the end of the workday on Friday. 

So last big thing in your presentation, suggest an outline. These are just some things I want you to hit in your presentation. Give me a little background on your project. Talk about where it came from, why you went with that idea. Talk me through your implementation, what the structure of your project is. You might show a UML diagram. You might pull up your code and poke around in it for a little bit. Then I want you to evaluate how well your project met your expectations. Were you able to do everything you wanted to do? Was there different problems that you ran into? Things like that. Then of course, there's talk about your future work. What would you want to do if you could continue working on this project? And then, of course, the big thing at the end is give me a demo. Pull up your project, walk me through it, make sure it works. Like I said, again, your presentation should be about 15 to 20 minutes. It does not have to be that long or in-depth, but I just want you to talk me through your project and show me that it works. 

So we're getting close to the end of the semester. Hopefully you're not freaking out too bad. Things seem to be going good from my perspective of things. So I'd say just keep up the great work and let me know. You can expect probably one more announcement next week of any wrap-up stuff and talking about things like T-Vals. You'll get emails about T-Vals toward the end of the semester, but hopefully this gets you most everything you need to get through the end of the semester. As always, if you have questions, let me know. Otherwise, best of luck, and I will see you again next week. 