---
title: "Spring '22 Week 15"
pre: "15. "
weight: 150
date: 2022-05-02T00:53:26-05:00
---

{{< youtube 9fbdUeSx80s >}}

#### Resources

* <a href="{{<relref "./slides">}}" target="_blank">Slides</a>

#### Edited Transcript

Hello, and welcome to the week 15 Announcements video for CC 410 in spring 2022. This is the last announcements video, I won't be doing a video on finals week. So we're going to cover everything you need to know for the end of this semester in this video. First and foremost due today is the second concept quiz in the course, so make sure that you go through that and get that submitted, it does take a little bit of time, I think you're allocated about two or two and a half hours to work on that it should be more than enough time to get through it. But it gives you plenty of time to go through the code, make sure you understand what you're doing and get that submitted. You're also working on the example for the REST part of the web interface. And then milestone 10 also covers RESTful web interfaces. So make sure you get that submitted.

 After that next week, on Monday, May the ninth you'll have the last milestone for the restaurant project, which is all about form validation and adding serialization following the examples. And the example code that I give should be really, really simple to get this put in. I don't believe it takes a whole lot of time. But it really adds that last little bit of functionality to the website to make it very useful. So make sure you get that turned in by Monday the ninth, then by the end of finals week on May the 13th is when your final project is due. So let's talk about that a bit. 
 
 The final project has a few deliverables. First and foremost, you'll need to create a release tag on GitHub with your current code, make sure you read the requirements page for the final project and that your code covers all those requirements. There are a lot of requirements that are very easy to cover. And in that project, I tell you that if you cover most of the requirements, you'll probably get a 70 or 80% on the project. And in going above that is really how well you meet those requirements and how well you truly have built a useful project. And not something that just checks all the boxes. I've been talking pretty closely with a lot of you and I think you're all on the right track. So make sure you review those requirements and that you've hit all of those in your code before you get it submitted. You may also want to add documentation to your code, your code does have to follow the same coding standard that we've done throughout the class. So it should pass all of the linters and style checkers, Python, it should have typing information in the Object Oriented part of the program. It should have documentation comments throughout, you don't need to necessarily be as strict on the unit tests. But in your actual source code, it should follow all of those requirements. You may also find it useful to add either a readme or some sort of user documentation to your project. And then of course, it never hurts to do things such as have your documentation published on GitHub Pages, maybe even making a release, like we saw in milestone, or example 10. So you can do all of that stuff as well. And then you should also add your presentation to your repository, I highly recommend just adding your PowerPoint or PDF or whatever presentation you've got inside of your code repository and making sure that that gets uploaded to GitHub, along with the rest of your code. 
 
 For the presentation, I expect you to give a presentation that is around 30 minutes in length, you have a couple of different options, you can choose to pre record your presentation however you'd like. Zoom works well for this, you can also download OBS and do what I'm doing where you share your screen. And then you also have some video of yourself talking pre recording gives you a chance to stop and start and cut and paste and kind of put things together the way you want. Or you can also choose to present it to me live via zoom. If you want to present live via zoom, I have two days set aside for that. So may 11, or may 12th, which is Wednesday or Thursday of finals week. If you would like to present live, please let me know soon, I'll probably send out an email as soon as this announcement goes live asking each of you to reply really quickly with your preference on presentation. Please be aware that for finals week, I will be out of the country I will be in Mexico with my family, I'm still going to be working off and on. And I will try and be available as best I can. But really outside of May 11, or 12th, I won't have a ton of availability. I'll still respond emails as best I can. But it may be harder to catch me on a Zoom meeting while I'm down in Mexico. But I'll do the best to coordinate with you. And if something comes up, we'll deal with it. But if you have any questions on the presentation, please let me know soon. You can always record your presentation. Even if your project is not exactly feature complete. As long as it's close enough, you can get your presentation recorded and send it to me to get feedback. 
 
 For your presentation, there is a suggested outline that I recommend you follow. It's outlined in the final project document. I'll go through it quickly here. Typically, I suggest starting with a brief introduction, and then give a little bit of background on the project. So why you chose this project, maybe some related projects or programs that you're familiar with that inspired this, you'll spend a lot of time talking about the implementation. This is how you chose to structure your code, why you chose the classes and GUIs and whatever you chose, and talk me through how you how you built the project, how you structured it, all of those high level things. This would be where you'd show your UML diagram. For example, you might even show some other diagrams or some other information such as GUI mockups that would help. The evaluation point is where you evaluate how well your project met your own goals. And it's also where you can talk about things such as your unit tests that helps confirm that your project is working correctly like it should. You'll have a brief slide at the end for future work, if you were to continue this project, what would you do on it? What are some things you'd like to fix or continue working on, you'll have a short conclusion. And then at the end, you'll have a demo, the demo is a really important part, I expect you to be able to pull up your source code, kind of talk me through some of the interesting parts of it, and then work through the GUI of your project and highlight what different parts of the source code it's going through, you know, anything that you would do to explain to me, all of the work and all of the cool stuff that you put into this project, that sometimes not visible just by working with the GUI, so actually digging down into the code and showing me some of the cool things that you worked on and things you learned, is really useful for this presentation. 
 
 So that's all we've got for this semester, the checkered flag is flying. Hopefully, everything is going well for you in the class. If you have any questions or concerns, now's the time to reach out to me and let me know, I can't really do a whole lot with grades, especially once we get to finals week, because most everything is locked in. And there's not a whole lot of time to make changes. But if there's any grades or any concerns that you have on this class, let me know as soon as possible. So I can deal with those, especially before I go to Mexico. If you have any questions you can reach out to me and also just start working on your final project presentations. Like I said, be watching for an email from me very soon to figure out the modality of your presentation and the timing if you're going to present live so I can get those things on my calendar. Other than that, it's been a pleasure having you all in this class. I've really enjoyed getting to work with you. I hope you've gotten something out of the class, please watch for the TEVAL email that will come out shortly that will ask you to evaluate my teaching and the structure of the class. Any comments that you can give me as always greatly appreciated. I'm always looking for ways I can improve this class. And it's been a pleasure having you so good luck, and I will see you hopefully in the future 

