---
title: "Fall '24 Week 2"
pre: "2. "
weight: 20
---

{{< youtube -sSOdJkgoeQ >}}

#### Resources

* <a href="{{% relref "./slides" %}}" target="_blank">Slides</a>

#### Edited Transcript

Hello and welcome to the week two announcements video for CC 410 in fall 2024. This week you should be wrapping up the first module in the class which includes the Hello Real World example project. All you really have to do for that project is watch the video and follow along and then submit what you have gotten completed at the end of that. You also should have scheduled a meeting to meet with me for the first final project milestone so if you haven't done that please make sure you do that this week. All we're really going to do is chat about the final project in this class and give you a chance to ask any questions you might have. You don't have to come up with a project or anything at this point. I just like to get you thinking about it now so that when we do get to the final project later in October you already have an idea that you've been thinking about and you're ready to go. 

So this week we're going to start working on the first real milestone project in this class. The second module in the class covers object oriented programming. You'll do a small example where we'll build out a basic object oriented programming project that looks very similar to the restaurant milestone and then you'll do the first milestone for the restaurant project. If you saw the announcement that I posted earlier this week I'm actually giving you an option between two different restaurants that you can work on. There's Starfleet subs which is one of the older ones that I developed but I've updated it a few times and then there's also Game Grub. You can choose either one. The Game Grub one is the one the modules that are linked into the class itself so those will be the easiest ones to find but you can go directly to the textbook and look at some of the old milestones and you'll be able to find the ones for Starfleet subs there. I included a direct link in the Canvas announcement for that. The other big thing to keep in mind is if you are retaking this class and you have done one of these projects before you'll need to pick the other one for your retake so just to be aware of that. Other than that just some quick updates don't forget we have the end discussion board so if you have any questions or comments or anything on this class you can post on end discussion. I get those emails pretty quickly and I usually respond within a business day usually a lot faster than that so feel free to post on end discussion board. For grading I'm gonna start grading your hello real world. probably today or tomorrow. The way I typically grade those is I fill out the rubric on Canvas, but then I'll do code comments on GitHub if I see anything. 

So for this first milestone, I'll probably leave at least a comment somewhere so that you'll see it. You should get an email to your GitHub email address whenever I leave a comment on your pull request, so you'll be notified of that. But if you have trouble finding those comments in GitHub, just let me know. Otherwise, I think so far so good, everything seems to be going well in this class. So for this first milestone in the class, we're going to create a lot of packages and classes for object -oriented programming, and it ends up being a lot of boilerplate code. That means there's going to be a lot of repeated code between the various classes that you're gonna work in, but I like to start here and then refactor the code later so you can really see the advantage of object -oriented programming going forward. 

In this first milestone, you'll notice that some of the requirements are not enforced, such as the style guide and the documentation requirements. However, you can make things easier for yourself later by going ahead and following those and doing that work now so that you don't have to add that on later. This milestone, I estimate, takes anywhere between three to eight hours to complete. It really depends on your efficiency as you work on this project and your experience working with these tools. I'm able to complete it pretty quickly. For some of you, if this is very new, you may take a little bit of time, but that's okay. And at least my model solution was around 1 ,500 to 2 ,500 lines of code, depending on how I build it. So it's a rather large project. It's much bigger than a lot of the projects you've done up to this point. But like I said, it's a lot of boilerplate repeated code. So you should be able to get through it pretty quickly if you think about it. Also with this milestone and all the other milestones, feedback is always welcome. If there's something in the milestone description that is unclear, please let me know so that I can clarify it and maybe rewrite the milestone to make that a little bit clearer. So your feedback is always welcome on these. 

After we get past this module, the next module we'll spend some time talking about documentation and unit testing. Then we'll do some inheritance and polymorphism and refactor our code to take advantage of that. And then we'll go on to module five, where we'll talk about debugging, logging, lambda expressions and other things. And then we will actually introduce the second final project milestone. It will be at about the end of September by the time we get there. So hopefully everything's going well for you this semester. If you have any questions or concerns, let me know. Otherwise I will see you again next week in one of these announcements videos. 
