---
title: "Spring '22 Week 2"
pre: "2. "
weight: 20
date: 2021-08-30T00:53:26-05:00
---

{{< youtube rlbmop0xvpg   >}}

#### Resources

* <a href="{{% relref "./slides" %}}" target="_blank">Slides</a>

#### Edited Transcript

Hello, and welcome to the week two announcements video for CC 410 in spring 2022. So by this point this week, you should have wrapped up module one, which is all about the Hello real world project and all of the introductory stuff for the course. Hopefully by now you've also scheduled your first final project meeting with me, mainly, what we'll do is just go over the final project, discuss any finer points that you might be interested in and maybe discuss possible topics that you can think about. It's usually a short meeting 15 minutes as well long enough for that meeting. But if you haven't already, please schedule a time with me via Calendly so that we can meet and go over the final projects. 

This week, you'll be starting in on the first real module of content in this class, which is Module Two covering object oriented programming. There will be a short example around object oriented programming, and then you'll start working on the first restaurant milestone, all of that content is due next Monday. Just to be aware, everything in this class is due on Monday, I'm on campus on Tuesdays teaching another class, so it's most likely going to be Wednesdays or Thursdays when you actually get grades from stuff that you submit on Monday nights, just because I don't have a whole lot of time to grade things on Tuesdays. So hopefully everything from Module One will be graded and posted later today or by tomorrow, so you can get some good feedback on that. But you're welcome to go ahead and start working on Module Two Content while you're waiting for feedback on module one. 

So some quick updates. I believe everybody found the Discord channels. So that's great. If you have any questions, you can post them there. If I'm on Discord, if I'm at my computer, I will try and respond pretty quickly. If you don't get a response very quick on Discord, or it feels like I missed a message, please email the cc410-help email address and I will respond to it there. I always guarantee responses via email. I won't guarantee responses via discord just because that's really hard to do. But if I'm at my computer, and it's a quick question I can answer I will definitely do that. For grading in this course, one thing to be aware of is you'll have feedback on the rubric on canvas. But then I'll also go to GitHub and leave comments on your code in GitHub through the feedback pull request. I believe you get an email from GitHub when I leave those comments, so you can check them there. But basically be aware that I might leave comments in one or both places. Most of the grading comments will be on Canvas, most of the code and stop comments will be on GitHub. Other than that, I think this class is going well so far. If you have any questions or concerns, let me know. 

Basically, this week, we'll be working on the first restaurant milestone, which is all about building the packages and classes to represent the menu of items in the restaurant. It's a lot of boilerplate code. Once you make one entree class, it should be easy to make most of the other ones. Things that you can do now is to make things easier later by thinking about coding style, and documentation. Some of those requirements are not enforced until we get to the second and third milestone. But we covered all of this in the Hello real world project. So if you can do that, and follow some of those requirements, now, it makes the later milestones easier. Best advice for this milestone is to start with one of the more complex items on the menu, get that done, then you can copy paste that code into another item, tweak it a little bit and so on. When I did this, most students have told me this milestone takes anywhere between three and eight hours to complete, depending on how comfortable you are working in the language you're working with. My model solution is around 1500 to 2500 lines of code depending on the semester and the language. So that gives you a pretty good idea of the scope of this project. Already, this first milestone is going to be a bigger scope than most of the projects you've been asked to do thus far in the computational core program. So just be aware of that this is a much larger program, but a lot of it is boiled boilerplate code that is duplicated between the classes. So be aware of that. Also, don't forget, if you've got any feedback on any of these, please let me know. This is the third or fourth semester I've used this particular project, but I changed the menu and some of the specific key specifics each time. So if something looks weird, or you think there's a remnant from previous semester, just let me know, you might be able to earn some of those bug bounty points for catching things that I miss. 

So looking ahead from here, the next module is Module Three, all in documentation and testing. Module Four covers things like inheritance and polymorphism. Module Five is all about debugging, logging and lambdas. And that's where we'll have our second final project check in that covers most of the content through the end of February in this course, and then from there in March, we will skip over to working with graphical user interfaces. So good luck this week on the second module, the first restaurant milestone in this course as always, if you have any questions, let me know and I will look forward to talking to you all about your final projects. 



