---
title: "Spring '25 Week 14"
pre: "14. "
weight: 140
---

{{< youtube IEY1TQUC1b4 >}}

#### Resources

* <a href="{{% relref "./slides" %}}" target="_blank">Slides</a>

#### Edited Transcript

Hello and welcome to the week 14 announcements video for CC 410 in spring 2025. This week you should be working on your fourth final project milestone. So you'll be scheduling some time to meet with me either this week or next week to talk about your final project. There's also the second concept quiz that's out there. So make sure you're looking at that and getting that done. And then there's also a restaurant milestone and an example about using a RESTful API to be able to add and edit custom menu items to the project. And then of course, make sure you keep spending some time working on your final project. There's a lot of different things to balance this week, but hopefully you're finding time to get all of these things done as you get toward the end of the semester. So for the next restaurant milestone, we're going to be building a RESTful web application that allows us to create custom menu items. We're gonna reinforce some of the design patterns that we saw earlier this semester, such as the iterator pattern and the singleton pattern. And this is really the last time that you're going to go through and update your UML diagram to match everything that you have going on in your web application. 

Then we go to next week, we're gonna have a quick example of using serialization to save data. So we'll talk about some form validation and some serialization. And then of course, you'll keep working on your final project as we get toward the end of the semester. After that, the rest of the semester is really a textbook quiz that's going to be due on finals week. And then you'll have your final project milestone five, which is the presentation that is due on May 16th, which is the end of finals week. For your final project itself, your deliverables are pretty simple. Just like every other project, you're going to create a release tag on GitHub. Make sure that your release tag meets all the requirements for that project. So make sure you read the requirements page for your final project again. You should have code documentation in your code, but you may also wanna create things like a read me file or some user documentation for how to use your project. And then you will create and do a presentation. 

The presentation itself should be around 15 to 20 minutes and it should go through your project both in code and demo your project and talk a little bit about the design of your project. Most students choose to pre-record this. All you do is just open up a Zoom room. hit record, share your screen, show whatever you need to do there. If you wanna present it live, you can do that. You just have to find a time on my schedule. But if you do pre-record it, I'd like you to schedule a time anyway for me to have a quick Q&A. Only needs to be 15 minutes long just so I can see your presentation, ask you a few questions about your project. Big thing to be aware of is my schedule on finals week is really busy because I take care of the computer science final project class and that eats up all of Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. So if you wanna meet with me on finals week, you really only have Monday or Friday and you are competing with the ICS capstone students. So if you wanna grab a time on my calendar, either Monday or Friday of finals week, for about half an hour if you're gonna present live or for about 15 minutes if you're gonna do a Q&A, that would be fantastic just to get that on the schedule. 

A lot of students ask what their presentation should cover. Here's kind of a quick suggested outline. You can also find this out on the materials for Canvas. You can give a quick, introduction to your project, talked about where your idea came from, some background behind, you know, what you looked at, maybe some other inspirations, things like that. Spend some time talking about the implementation, different code structures, classes, design patterns, anything you did in the implementation. Give a quick evaluation for how well your project met your original goals. Talk about future work. If you're going to keep working on this project, what would you do next? And then, of course, give us a demo and show how it actually works. 

So we're getting toward the end of the semester. It's week 14 out of 16. So next week is dead week and then finals week. Hopefully things are going well. Hopefully you're getting toward the end of the semester. I will probably post one more announcements video next week for the semester and then we'll wrap up from there. But as always, if you have any questions, let me know. Otherwise, best of luck this week and I will see you again next week. 